# Open Science Organization (OSO)

Modern day science has been a collective effort of different researchers and research groups. The collective intellectual power gathered by the scientific ecosystem is akin to the group intelligence (the “wisdom of crowds”) where a wise crowd is generally more intelligent compared to individual members in the group. The additional gain in intelligence is primarily dependent on the efficient flow of value (capital, information, etc.) among the members. The scientific community is still dependent on the rudimentary system for value flow, which is highly centralized, opaque, and redundant. Thereby it suffers from several problems: funding agencies are controlled by a small number of people, majority of scientists’ time is consumed by grant application writing with small success rates, a slow publication process, institutional biases, underpaid researchers, irreproducible publications, high subscription fees for journals, and a general focus on quantity of scientific publications over quality. These problems can be solved and the overall efficiency of the scientific community can be improved by creating an open and decentralized scientific ecosystem based on blockchain technology (or its variants). 

Open Science Organization (OSO) is a non-profit Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO), which promises to create an open, decentralized, and efficient  scientific ecosystem. The three key characteristics of OSO ecosystem are 

1. an open democratic funding process
2. an open democratic perpetual review process
3. the flow of value (in OSO tokens) created by the scientific results (publications, products, patents, etc.) back to the funding, thus creating a perpetual system for scientific research

In OSO ecosystem, all steps/procedures will be algorithmic or will be based on community voting. Even certain aspects of algorithmic steps (e.g. algorithms used for decision making) are subjected to change based upon voting. Any individual or organization who holds OSO tokens will be considered an entity (or a member) in the OSO ecosystem. Each entity will have a voting power proportional to their expertise (e-value) in the corresponding scientific domain and the amount of value (OSO tokens) they are willing to invest/stake. 
